# Changes in xspec-models-cxc

## 0.0.13

Separated out the template code from `setup.py` to a separate module
(`helpers.template`) to make it look like I have some idea of coding
standards.

## 0.0.12

Added SPDX-Licencse-Identifier tags. Am I doing it right?

## 0.0.11

Improve support for getting and setting features used by the
XSPEC model library, including

- cross-section table (`cross_section`)
- number of elements in the abundance table (`numberElements`)
- the Cosmology settings (`cosmology`); note that there we can only
  get or set all three values at once (H0, q0, lambda0) even though we
  could add support to change them individually
- support for a number of "databases":
  - XFLT
  - model string
  - keyword
  These have subtly-different APIs and I wonder if it would be
  better to just use a dictionary. The naming is also unclear.

There have also been some changes to provide better - or at least
somewhat-more-appropriate for Python - errors.

Of note is that the current setup leaves the cosmology settings
initially at (0.0, 0.0, 0.0). This is less-than ideal.

Technically we should now be able to use the SMAUG model, but I have
not tested it, other than showing it picks up the XFLT values.

## 0.0.10

Support the `spectrum` argument to all models and, for non-FORTRAN
models, the `initStr` argument.

## 0.0.9

Support C-style models. This bumps the number of supported models to
209 (there are 8 new models in this release).

## 0.0.8

An internal change to better use XSPEC types and which simplifies the
internals (no need to re-create the FORTRAN signatures).

## 0.0.7

Support FORTRAN models (at least for additive and multiplicative
models). This bumps the number of models from 115 to 201.

Note that a FORTRAN compiler is not required (although it will have
been needed to build XSPEC).

## 0.0.6

The initalization of the XSPEC model library is now done
automatically, the first time any routine is called, rather than
requiring an explicit call to a `init` function. The screen output the
initialization creates - that is, displaying the default abundance and
cross-section tables - has now been hidden.

The error-handling has been improved to raise errors other than
RuntimeError when appropriate.

## 0.0.5

Improve the module documentation. It's still not great but it is a
move in the right direction.

## 0.0.4

Start transitioning to `setup.cfg`. This seems to work...

There should be no functional changes in this release, other than that
NumPy shuold now be installed if not already available.

## 0.0.3

The first steps in auto-generating code: all the C++-style additive
and multiplicative models are now supported (there are 115 of
them). We use the [parse-xspec](https://github.com/cxcsds/parse_xspec)
package to extract the information from the `model.dat` file, but this
is handled for you at build time and isn't needed at runtime.

## 0.0.2

There is no functional change but the model interface is generated by
a template rather than being hard coded.

## 0.0.1

A minimum viable product to show an interface to the XSPEC model
library that lets you call some functions and evaluate a model.

Issues include, but are not limited to:

- the model interface is not automatically generated
- many missing functions
- there is no information about each model
- initialization is manual
- how can we use the functionality to support user models
  (from a different Python package)
- the build is fragile
